Now, today's Watchtower comments, focus on compassion, which is an aspect of the quality
of love.
Now, you will agree that we can express our love and compassion in many different ways
to one another, small and great.
With that thought in mind, how would you answer this question?
What is the greatest expression of love and compassion ever show?
No doubt you will answer Jehovah giving his son as a ransom.
And indeed, we cannot thank Jehovah enough for the ransom arrangements.
Now, that being the case, let us use today's morning worship comments to highlight the
connection between compassion and the ransom.
Now to do so, we will consider these questions.
How does Jehovah show his love and compassion through the ransom?
And how does the ransom emphasize why we should show love and compassion?
To answer, let us go back to the time that Adam and Eve were without sin.
At that time, they had a close relationship with their Heavenly Father.
Jehovah regularly spoke to them, likely by means of his son.
However, Adam and Eve disobeyed Jehovah and sin overshadowed them.
How did that rebellious act affect their relationship with Jehovah?
It was as if a wall or barrier crashed into it and destroyed it.
Now what was Jehovah's reaction to the rebellion of Adam and Eve?
It is described that Isaiah 59 verse 2.
Now although Isaiah wrote these words many years after the time of Adam, they described
Jehovah's timeless reaction to disobedience.
Isaiah 59, 2.
Your own errors have separated you from your gods.
Your sins have made him hide his face from you and he refuses to hear you.
Now the inside book explains that the expression,
hide his face signifies that Jehovah withdrew his favor.
And that is exactly what Jehovah did in the case of Adam and Eve.
Jehovah withdrew his favor and the father-child relationship was blocked.
And how did that wall affect the children of Adam and Eve?
All descendants of Adam and Eve were born on the wrong side of the wall, so to speak,
and since no imperfect human had the ability to scale that wall,
all mankind was left without hope, captive to sin and death.
Now if Jehovah would have left that situation as it was,
he would have acted justly because the wages sinned pace his death.
However, out of his love and compassion for the offspring of Adam and Eve,
what did Jehovah do?
To answer, let us illustrate how Jehovah made it possible for us to be brought back into a relationship with him.
Let's think of the face of a clock.
For the sake of illustration, imagine that Jehovah resides at 12 o'clock.
And where are we?
Well, since we are born as sinners, we are far away from Jehovah,
so we can put our name at 6 o'clock.
Now to see what happens next, let us read several verses in 1 John chapter 4.
Note what the Apostle John states at 1 John 4, 10, the first part of the verse.
The love is in disrespect, not that we have loved God,
but that he loved us.
And then verse 19, we love because he first loved us.
Now these verses tell us that Jehovah moved by his love and compassion for us,
took the needed steps to finalize the arrangement to come to our rescue.
In order to reach us, he made a deep tour as it were around that wall.
However, as stated that Habakkuk 113,
Jehovah's eyes are too pure to look onto what is evil.
Therefore, Jehovah needed to cover our sins.
And as we remember, the word atonement, as used in the Bible,
means covering of sins.
So to provide that needed covering, in 33 CE,
Jehovah offered his son as an atoning sacrifice.
Now what moved Jehovah to make that costly sacrifice?
Let's read the answer at 1 John 4, 9.
By this, the love of God was revealed in our case
that God sent his only begotten son into the world
so that we might gain life through him.
Now, note this important point.
Jehovah did not only have a feeling of love for us,
but he revealed his love for us.
In other words, Jehovah provided visible proof of his love for us
by sacrificing his son in our behalf.
Jehovah made the arrangement for that costly sacrifice
so that he was able to reach out to us,
even to people who lived before the time of Christ.
So to answer our first question,
Jehovah shows his love and compassion
through the ransom arrangement, because he saves us
despite the fact that we are sinners.
As the watchtower beautifully stated,
the ransom was provided not because we are worthy,
but because we are loved.
Now, our second question.
How does the ransom emphasize why we should show love
to our brothers and sisters?
Now, let's return to our clock illustration.
Up to this point, we considered how Jehovah's compassion moved him
to reach out from 12 to 6 o'clock, so to speak.
Now, we will consider how we can move as it were
from 6 to 12 o'clock.
What happened at 6 o'clock?
Well, to benefit from the ransom, we exercised faith in it.
We dedicated ourselves to Jehovah and God baptized.
After that, we continue to make spiritual progress
and draw closer to God.
What did we do next?
What else did God require of us?
Now, remember, Jehovah gave visible proof
of his love for us by providing the ransom sacrifice.
In turn, Jehovah requires that we also give visible proof
of our love for him.
And by means of the Apostle John,
Jehovah describes precisely what kind
of visible proof he expects of us.
We find the Apostles' instructions at 1 John 4-11.
Let's read it.
Beloved ones, if this is how God loved us,
then we are also under obligation to love God in return.
Is that what John wrote?
No, although that is what we may have expected.
Instead, John wrote Beloved ones,
if this is how God loved us,
then we are also under obligation to love one another.
So what is the comparison that John made?
This, Jehovah gave visible proof of his love for us
by sending his son.
Now, if this is how God loved us, Rodion,
how should we respond?
We give visible proof of our gratitude for the ransom
by loving one another.
Now, think for a moment about this amazing statement
of all the visible acts of faith
that we could have been asked to demonstrate
in order to express our gratitude for the ransom.
What does Jehovah require of us?
John stated that we should love our brothers and sisters.
Clearly, in Jehovah's eyes,
our showing love to one another
is of the utmost importance.
So let's return one more time to our clock illustration.
Where do we want to be today?
Now, by showing love for our fellow believers,
we showed Jehovah our gratitude
and we continue to make spiritual progress.
As a result, we are drawing ever closer to Jehovah
and to the many blessings he has in store for us.
Eventually, we will enjoy, again,
the precious relationship that Adam and Eve lost.
In the meantime, today, we are very thankful
to be part of a worldwide family of brothers and sisters
who give visible proof of their warm love for one another,
especially during this challenging time.
And why will we continue to love one another?
Because by doing so,
we show our gratitude to Jehovah
for the ransom arrangement,
which is the greatest expression of love
and compassion ever shown.